Here is a detailed Design Specification Document for implementing your blog page based on the mockup, updated database schema, and additional requirements:

Blog Page Design Specification
1. Objective
To create a user-friendly, modern, and attractive blog page for an e-commerce website. The page should allow registered customers to submit blog posts while maintaining a clean layout and seamless navigation.

2. Functional Requirements
Display Blog Posts:

Featured Posts: Highlight the most important or recent posts at the top.
All Posts Section: Show all blog posts in a paginated or scrollable layout.
Search Functionality:

Provide a search bar for users to search for posts by keywords in the title, excerpt, or content.
Category Filter:

List available categories (from the Blog_Categories table) in a sidebar to allow users to filter posts.
Recent Posts:

Display the most recent posts (sorted by published_at) in the sidebar.
New Blog Post Submission:

Add a button for registered customers to submit new posts.
The button should be visible only to logged-in customers.
Upon clicking, navigate to a form for submitting the blog title, content, category, and an optional excerpt.
Comment Functionality:

Allow users to view and submit comments on individual blog posts.
Comments must display the name, content, and timestamp.
3. UI/UX Design
General Layout:

Header: Include navigation links (e.g., Home, Blog, About, Cart).
Main Body: Two-column layout:
Left Column: Blog content.
Right Sidebar: Search, categories, and recent posts.
Visual Hierarchy:

Use larger, bold fonts for titles and subtle shades for excerpts.
Add "Read More" links to navigate to the full post page.
Responsiveness:

Ensure the page is responsive and mobile-friendly.
Colors and Typography:

Maintain consistency with the e-commerce website’s theme.
Use readable font sizes and line spacing for better accessibility.
CTA Buttons:

Use a prominent color for the "Add Blog Post" button.
Add hover effects to all interactive elements.
4. Backend Functionality
Blog Posts Retrieval:

Fetch posts from the Blog_Posts table, including the title, excerpt, published_at, and category.
Category Management:

Use the Blog_Categories table to populate the category filter.
New Post Submission:

Validate that the user is logged in and registered (check the Customers table).
Save the post data to the Blog_Posts table.
Comment Handling:

Save comments in the Blog_Comments table, associating them with the correct post.
Search Functionality:

Query the Blog_Posts table for posts matching the search keyword in the title, excerpt, or content.
5. Security and Permissions
Authentication:

Ensure only logged-in users can submit blog posts.
Data Validation:

Sanitize user input to prevent SQL injection and XSS attacks.
Spam Prevention:

Add a CAPTCHA or similar mechanism to the comment submission form.
6. Database Interaction
Fetch Posts:

Query to fetch blog posts:
sql
Copy code
SELECT post_id, title, excerpt, category_id, published_at
FROM Blog_Posts
ORDER BY published_at DESC;
Fetch Categories:

Query to retrieve all categories:
sql
Copy code
SELECT category_id, name
FROM Blog_Categories;
Add New Blog Post:

Insert a new blog post:
sql
Copy code
INSERT INTO Blog_Posts (title, content, excerpt, author_id, category_id, published_at)
VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, now());
Fetch Comments:

Query to retrieve comments for a specific post:
sql
Copy code
SELECT comment_id, author_name, content, commented_at
FROM Blog_Comments
WHERE post_id = ?;
Add Comment:

Insert a new comment:
sql
Copy code
INSERT INTO Blog_Comments (post_id, author_name, author_email, content, commented_at)
VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, now());
7. Testing and Validation
Frontend Tests:

Test layout responsiveness across devices.
Verify the visibility of the "Add Blog Post" button for logged-in users only.
Backend Tests:

Validate all queries for correctness.
Check permissions for adding blog posts and comments.
User Testing:

Collect feedback on the page's usability and visual appeal.

